Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the bitwise AND operator.
So the bitwise AND operator takes equal length
binary sequence and perform bitwise AND operation So
if we have 0 and 0
Then this operator will return 0
And if you have 0 and 1 then also the
result is 0
And if you have 1 and 0 then also the
And finally if you have both the values equal to
1 then the result is 1
So simply saying if you have any of the bit
equal to 0 then the result is 0.
And if you have both the value equal to 1
then only the result is 1
So see an example take 5 and 9 and let
us perform bitwise AND operation on 5 and 9
But these are decimal numbers and we need to convert
it into binary numbers
And we know the binary equivalent of decimal 5
which is equal to 101 And for 9 it is
equal to 1001 and we need equal length binary
sequence
So add a 0 to the left of 101
and we got 0101 Now we can perform bitwise AND
so take the first pair of bits which are
1 and 1 and we have the truth table here
See for 11 we get 1 and the next pair
0 and 0
So we get 0 and next is 1 and 0
and we get 0
And finally we have 0 and 1 and we get
0 and the result of bitwise AND operation between
5 and 9 is 0001 Now see the code to implement this.
In the main function we are declaring two integers A and B
which are equal to 5 and 9
Then we are calculating output equal to A bitwise AND B
so bitwise AND operation will be performed
and the result will be stored in output
Now we are printing the value of output which will
be equal to 1
So that's it
Now let us discuss about the application of bitwise AND
So suppose we are going to design a robot
car which use a sensor to sense the environment and update
its direction accordingly
And we have four directions backward, forward, left and right
and each bit when set to 1 can indicate to
go to a particular direction
That is if first bit is set
The car should go to right direction and if second
bit is set, go to left direction and so on
But how to check if a bit is set? we
can use bitwise AND operator for that
Using bitwise AND operator we can check if a
particular bit is enabled or disabled and we need
to create it binary AND mask here and it should
have only one 1 in the position
We're we want to check the bit status and all
the remaining bits must be zero and see here we
need to check if second bit is enabled so we can
have mask = 0010 and perform bitwise AND operation
And if we are getting 1 there it means that
bit was set And if you're getting 0 it means
it was not set
Now see another example
We want to check if forth bit is set and for that
we need mask=1000 And when we performed
bitwise AND we get 0 the so we can
infer that fourth bit was not set
And this is how we can apply bitwise AND here
So that's all and thank you for watching this video